.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_READ_PREFS_T" "3" "2016\(hy11\(hy27" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_read_prefs_t \- A read preference abstraction
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.B mongoc_read_prefs_t
provides an abstraction on top of the MongoDB connection read prefences. It allows for hinting to the driver which nodes in a replica set should be accessed first.

You can specify a read preference mode on connection objects, database objects, collection objects, or per\(hyoperation. Generally, it makes the most sense to stick with the global default,
.B MONGOC_READ_PRIMARY
. All of the other modes come with caveats that won't be covered in great detail here.

.SH "READ MODES"

.TP
.B
MONGOC_READ_PRIMARY
Default mode. All operations read from the current replica set primary.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_READ_SECONDARY
All operations read from among the nearest secondary members of the replica set.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_READ_PRIMARY_PREFERRED
In most situations, operations read from the primary but if it is unavailable, operations read from secondary members.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_READ_SECONDARY_PREFERRED
In most situations, operations read from among the nearest secondary members, but if no secondaries are available, operations read from the primary.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_READ_NEAREST
Operations read from among the nearest members of the replica set, irrespective of the member’s type.
.LP

.SH "TAG SETS"

Tag sets allow you to specify custom read preferences and write concerns so that your application can target operations to specific members.

Custom read preferences and write concerns evaluate tags sets in different ways: read preferences consider the value of a tag when selecting a member to read from. while write concerns ignore the value of a tag to when selecting a member except to consider whether or not the value is unique.

You can specify tag sets with the following read preference modes:

.IP \[bu] 2
primaryPreferred
.IP \[bu] 2
secondary
.IP \[bu] 2
secondaryPreferred
.IP \[bu] 2
nearest

Tags are not compatible with
.B MONGOC_READ_PRIMARY
and, in general, only apply when selecting a secondary member of a set for a read operation. However, the nearest read mode, when combined with a tag set will select the nearest member that matches the specified tag set, which may be a primary or secondary.

All interfaces use the same member selection logic to choose the member to which to direct read operations, basing the choice on read preference mode and tag sets.

.SH "MAX STALENESS"

When connected to replica set running MongoDB 3.4 or later, the driver estimates the staleness of each secondary based on lastWriteDate values provided in server isMaster responses.

Max Staleness is the maximum replication lag in seconds (wall clock time) that a secondary can suffer and still be eligible for reads. The default is
.B MONGOC_NO_MAX_STALENESS
, which disables staleness checks. Otherwise, it must be a positive integer at least
.B MONGOC_SMALLEST_MAX_STALENESS_SECONDS
(90 seconds).

Max Staleness is also supported by sharded clusters of replica sets if all servers run MongoDB 3.4 or later.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.