.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_URI_GET_OPTION_AS_UTF8" "3" "2016\(hy10\(hy20" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_uri_get_option_as_utf8() \- Returns the value of the URI option if it is set and of the correct type (string). This value is a pointer into the URI's internal buffer, and is only valid until the URI is modified or freed. If the option is not set, or set to an invalid type, returns fallback.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
const char *
mongoc_uri_get_option_as_utf8 (const mongoc_uri_t *uri,
                               const char         *option,
                               const char         *fallback);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
uri
A
.B mongoc_uri_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
option
The name of an option, case insensitive.
.LP
.TP
.B
fallback
A default value to return.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Returns the value of the URI option if it is set and of the correct type (string). This value is a pointer into the URI's internal buffer, and is only valid until the URI is modified or freed. If the option is not set, or set to an invalid type, returns
.B fallback
.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.