.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CLIENT_POOL_SET_APM_CALLBACKS" "3" "2016\(hy11\(hy07" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_client_pool_set_apm_callbacks() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_client_pool_set_apm_callbacks (mongoc_client_pool_t   *pool,
                                      mongoc_apm_callbacks_t *callbacks,
                                      void                   *context);
.fi
.fi

Register a set of callbacks to receive Application Performance Monitoring events.

This function can only be called once on a pool, and must be called before the first
.B mongoc_client_pool_pop
.

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
pool
A
.B mongoc_client_pool_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
callbacks
A
.B mongoc_apm_callbacks_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
context
Optional pointer to include with each event notification.
.LP

.SH "RETURNS"

Returns true on success, otherwise false and an error is logged.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.B Introduction to Application Performance Monitoring


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.