.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_COLLECTION_RENAME" "3" "2016\(hy11\(hy07" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_collection_rename() \- For more information, see mongoc_collection_rename_with_opts(). This function is a thin wrapper, passing NULL in as opts parameter.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_collection_rename (mongoc_collection_t *collection,
                          const char          *new_db,
                          const char          *new_name,
                          bool                 drop_target_before_rename,
                          bson_error_t        *error);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
collection
A
.B mongoc_collection_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
new_db
The name of the new database.
.LP
.TP
.B
new_name
The new name for the collection.
.LP
.TP
.B
drop_target_before_rename
If an existing collection matches the new name, drop it before the rename.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
or
.B NULL
.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

For more information, see
.B mongoc_collection_rename_with_opts(3)
. This function is a thin wrapper, passing
.B NULL
in as
.B opts
parameter.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.