.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_TOPOLOGY_DESCRIPTION_HAS_READABLE_SERVER" "3" "2016\(hy11\(hy07" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_topology_description_has_readable_server() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_topology_description_has_readable_server (mongoc_topology_description_t *td,
                                                 const mongoc_read_prefs_t     *prefs);
.fi
.fi

Determines if the topology has a readable server available. Servers are filtered by the given read preferences only if the driver is connected to a replica set, otherwise the read preferences are ignored. This function uses the driver's current knowledge of the state of the MongoDB server or servers it is connected to; it does no I/O and it does not block.

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
td
A
.B mongoc_topology_description_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
read_prefs
A
.B mongoc_read_prefs_t
or
.B NULL
for default read preferences.
.LP

.SH "RETURNS"

True if there is a known server matching
.B prefs
.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.B Introduction to Application Performance Monitoring


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.