.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_BULK_OPERATION_UPDATE_MANY_WITH_OPTS" "3" "2016\(hy11\(hy07" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_bulk_operation_update_many_with_opts() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_bulk_operation_update_many_with_opts (mongoc_bulk_operation_t       *bulk,
                                             const bson_t                  *selector,
                                             const bson_t                  *document,
                                             const bson_t                  *opts,
                                             bson_error_t                  *error); /* OUT */
.fi
.fi

This function queues an update as part of a bulk operation. This does not execute the operation. To execute the entirety of the bulk operation call
.B mongoc_bulk_operation_execute(3)
.

.B NOTE
.RS
.B document
MUST only contain fields whose key starts with
.B $
. See the update document specification for more details.
.RE

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
bulk
A
.B mongoc_bulk_operation_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
selector
A
.B bson_t
that selects which documents to remove.
.LP
.TP
.B
document
A
.B bson_t
containing the update document.
.LP
.TP
.B
opts
A
.B bson_t
containing additional options.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
A
.B bson_error_t
any errors that may have occurred.
.LP

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.B mongoc_bulk_operation_update_one_with_opts(3)

.SH "ERRORS"

Operation errors are propagated via
.B mongoc_bulk_operation_execute(3)
, while argument validation errors are reported by the
.B error
argument.

.SH "RETURNS"

Returns true on success, and false otherwise.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.