.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_COLLECTION_DROP_INDEX_WITH_OPTS" "3" "2016\(hy11\(hy07" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_collection_drop_index_with_opts() \- This function requests than an index on collection be dropped. In the event of an error it returns false and error is set.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_collection_drop_index_with_opts (mongoc_collection_t *collection,
                                        const char          *index_name,
                                        const bson_t        *opts,
                                        bson_error_t        *error);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
collection
A
.B mongoc_collection_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
index_name
A string containing the name of the index.
.LP
.TP
.B
opts
A
.B bson_t
or
.B NULL
.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
or
.B NULL
.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function requests than an index on
.B collection
be dropped. In the event of an error it returns
.B false
and
.B error
is set.

If no write concern is provided in
.B opts
, the collection's write concern is used.

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated via the
.B error
parameter.

.SH "RETURNS"

.B true
if successful, otherwise
.B false
and
.B error
is set.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.