.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_WRITE_CONCERN_APPEND" "3" "2016\(hy11\(hy07" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_write_concern_append() \- This function appends a write concern to command options. It is useful for appending a write concern to command options before passing them to mongoc_client_write_command_with_opts or a related function that takes an options document.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_write_concern_append (mongoc_write_concern_t *write_concern,
                             bson_t                 *command);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
write_concern
A pointer to a
.B mongoc_write_concern_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
command
A pointer to a
.B bson_t
.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function appends a write concern to command options. It is useful for appending a write concern to command options before passing them to
.B mongoc_client_write_command_with_opts
or a related function that takes an options document.

.SH "RETURNS"

Returns true on success, and false otherwise.

.SH "EXAMPLE"

See the example code for
.B mongoc_client_read_command_with_opts
.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.