.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CURSOR_SET_HINT" "3" "2016\(hy10\(hy20" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_cursor_set_hint() \- Specifies which server to use for the operation. This function has an effect only if called before the find operation is executed.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_cursor_set_hint (mongoc_cursor_t *cursor,
                        uint32_t         server_id);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
cursor
A
.B mongoc_cursor_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
server_id
An opaque id identifying the server to use.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Specifies which server to use for the operation. This function has an effect only if called before the find operation is executed.

(The function name includes the old term "hint" for the sake of backward compatibility, but we now call this number a "server id".)

Use
.B mongoc_cursor_set_hint
only for building a language driver that wraps the C Driver. When writing applications in C, leave the server id unset and allow the driver to choose a suitable server from the find operation's read preference.

.SH "RETURNS"

.B true
if successful, otherwise
.B false
and logs an error.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.