.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CURSOR_SET_LIMIT" "3" "2016\(hy10\(hy20" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_cursor_set_limit() \- Limits the number of documents in the result set.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_cursor_set_limit (mongoc_cursor_t *cursor,
                         int64_t          limit);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
cursor
A
.B mongoc_cursor_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
limit
The maximum number of documents to retrieve for this query.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Limits the number of documents in the result set.

This function is useful for setting the limit on a cursor after the cursor is created, but before any calls to
.B mongoc_cursor_next
. It can also be used to pass a negative limit: The
.B limit
parameter to
.B mongoc_cursor_set_limit
is signed, although for backward\(hycompatibility reasons the
.B limit
parameter to
.B mongoc_collection_find
is not.

Calling this function after
.B mongoc_cursor_next
has no effect.

.SH "RETURNS"

True if the limit was set.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.