.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CURSOR_MORE" "3" "2016\(hy11\(hy07" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_cursor_more() \- This function shall indicate if there is potentially more data to be read from the cursor. This is only useful with tailable cursors. Use mongoc_cursor_next for regular cursors.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_cursor_more (mongoc_cursor_t *cursor);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
cursor
A
.B mongoc_cursor_t
.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function shall indicate if there is
.B potentially
more data to be read from the cursor. This is only useful with tailable cursors. Use
.B mongoc_cursor_next
for regular cursors.

Details:
.B mongoc_cursor_more
is unreliable because it does not contact the server to see if there are actually more documents in the result set. It simply returns true if the cursor has not begun, or if it has begun and there are buffered documents in the client\(hyside cursor, or if it has begun and the server has not yet told the cursor it is completely iterated.

This is unreliable with regular queries because it returns true for a new cursor before iteration, even if the cursor will match no documents. It is also true if the collection has been dropped on the server since the previous fetch, or if the cursor has finished its final batch and the next batch will be empty.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if the cursor has locally\(hybuffered documents, or if a round\(hytrip to the server might fetch additional documents.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.B Tailable Cursor Example


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.