.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CURSOR_NEW_FROM_COMMAND_REPLY" "3" "2016\(hy10\(hy20" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_cursor_new_from_command_reply() \- Some MongoDB commands return a "cursor" document. For example, given an "aggregate" command:
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
mongoc_cursor_t *
mongoc_cursor_new_from_command_reply (mongoc_client_t *client,
                                      bson_t          *reply,
                                      uint32_t         server_id);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
client
A
.B mongoc_client_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
reply
The reply to a command, such as "aggregate", "find", or "listCollections", that returns a cursor document. The reply is destroyed by
.B mongoc_cursor_new_from_command_reply
and must not be accessed afterward.
.LP
.TP
.B
server_id
The opaque id of the server used to execute the command.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Some MongoDB commands return a "cursor" document. For example, given an "aggregate" command:

.B { "aggregate" : "collection", "pipeline" : [], "cursor" : {}}

The server replies:

.nf
{
   "cursor" : {
   "id" : 1234,
   "ns" : "db.collection",
   "firstBatch" : [ ]
   },
   "ok" : 1
}
.fi

.B mongoc_cursor_new_from_command_reply
is a low\(hylevel function that initializes a
.B mongoc_cursor_t
from such a reply.

Use this function only for building a language driver that wraps the C Driver. When writing applications in C, higher\(hylevel functions such as
.B mongoc_collection_aggregate
are more appropriate, and ensure compatibility with a range of MongoDB versions.

.SH "RETURNS"

A
.B mongoc_cursor_t
. On failure, the cursor's error is set. Check for failure with
.B mongoc_cursor_error
.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.