.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_COLLECTION_COMMAND" "3" "2016\(hy11\(hy07" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_collection_command() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
mongoc_cursor_t *
mongoc_collection_command (mongoc_collection_t       *collection,
                           mongoc_query_flags_t       flags,
                           uint32_t                   skip,
                           uint32_t                   limit,
                           uint32_t                   batch_size,
                           const bson_t              *command,
                           const bson_t              *fields,
                           const mongoc_read_prefs_t *read_prefs)
BSON_GNUC_WARN_UNUSED_RESULT;
.fi
.fi

This function creates a cursor which will execute the command when
.B mongoc_cursor_next
is called on it. The collection's read preference, read concern, and write concern are not applied to the command, and
.B mongoc_cursor_next
will not check the server response for a write concern error or write concern timeout.

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
collection
A
.B mongoc_collection_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
flags
A
.B mongoc_query_flags_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
skip
A uint32_t with the number of documents to skip or zero.
.LP
.TP
.B
limit
A uint32_t with the max number of documents to return or zero.
.LP
.TP
.B
batch_size
A uint32_t with the number of documents in each batch or zero. Default is 100.
.LP
.TP
.B
command
A
.B bson_t
containing the command to execute.
.LP
.TP
.B
fields
A
.B bson_t
containing the fields to return or
.B NULL
. Not all commands support this option.
.LP
.TP
.B
read_prefs
An optional
.B mongoc_read_prefs_t
. Otherwise, the command uses mode
.B MONGOC_READ_PRIMARY
.
.LP

.SH "RETURNS"

A
.B mongoc_cursor_t
.

The cursor should be freed with
.B mongoc_cursor_destroy(3)
.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.