.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_URI_GET_OPTION_AS_INT32" "3" "2016\(hy10\(hy20" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_uri_get_option_as_int32() \- Returns the value of the URI option if it is set and of the correct type (int32). Returns fallback if the option is not set, set to an invalid type, or zero.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
int32
mongoc_uri_get_option_as_int32 (const mongoc_uri_t *uri,
                                const char         *option,
                                int32               fallback);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
uri
A
.B mongoc_uri_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
option
The name of an option, case insensitive.
.LP
.TP
.B
fallback
A default value to return.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Returns the value of the URI option if it is set and of the correct type (int32). Returns
.B fallback
if the option is not set, set to an invalid type, or zero.

Zero is considered "unset", so URIs can be constructed like so, and still accept default values:

.B bson_strdup_printf("mongodb://localhost/?connectTimeoutMS=%d", myvalue)

If
.B myvalue
is non\(hyzero it is the connection timeout; if it is zero the driver uses the default timeout.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.