.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_SERVER_DESCRIPTION_ISMASTER" "3" "2016\(hy10\(hy20" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_server_description_ismaster() \- The client or client pool periodically runs an "isMaster" command on each server, to update its view of the MongoDB deployment. Use mongoc_client_get_server_descriptions() and mongoc_server_description_ismaster() to get the most recent "isMaster" response.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
const bson_t *
mongoc_server_description_ismaster (const mongoc_server_description_t *description);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
description
A
.B mongoc_server_description_t
.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The client or client pool periodically runs an
.B "isMaster"
command on each server, to update its view of the MongoDB deployment. Use
.B mongoc_client_get_server_descriptions(3)
and
.B mongoc_server_description_ismaster(3)
to get the most recent "isMaster" response.

.SH "RETURNS"

A reference to a BSON document, owned by the server description. The document is empty if the driver is not connected to the server.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.