.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_COLLECTION_DROP_WITH_OPTS" "3" "2016\(hy11\(hy07" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_collection_drop_with_opts() \- This function requests that a collection be dropped, including all indexes associated with the collection.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_collection_drop_with_opts (mongoc_collection_t *collection,
                                  bson_t              *opts,
                                  bson_error_t        *error);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
collection
A
.B mongoc_collection_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
opts
A
.B bson_t
or
.B NULL
.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
or
.B NULL
.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function requests that a
.B collection
be dropped, including all indexes associated with the
.B collection
.

If no write concern is provided in
.B opts
, the collection's write concern is used.

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated via the
.B error
parameter.

.SH "RETURNS"

Returns true if the collection was successfully dropped. Otherwise false and error is set.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.