.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CLIENT_SET_APPNAME" "3" "2016\(hy11\(hy07" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_client_set_appname() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_client_set_appname (mongoc_client_t *client,
                           const char      *appname)
.fi
.fi

Sets the application name for this client. This string, along with other internal driver details, is sent to the server as part of the initial connection handshake (
.B "isMaster"
).

.B appname
is copied, and doesn't have to remain valid after the call to
.B mongoc_client_set_appname(3)
.

This function will log an error and return false in the following cases:

.IP \[bu] 2
.B appname
is longer than
.B MONGOC_HANDSHAKE_APPNAME_MAX
.IP \[bu] 2
.B client
has already initiated a handshake
.IP \[bu] 2
.B client
is from a
.B mongoc_client_pool_t

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
client
A
.B mongoc_client_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
appname
The application name, of length at most
.B MONGOC_HANDSHAKE_APPNAME_MAX
.
.LP

.SH "RETURNS"

true if the appname is set successfully. Otherwise, false.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.