.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_COLLECTION_READ_WRITE_COMMAND_WITH_OPTS" "3" "2016\(hy11\(hy27" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_collection_read_write_command_with_opts() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_collection_read_write_command_with_opts (mongoc_collection_t       *collection,
                                                const bson_t              *command,
                                                const mongoc_read_prefs_t *read_prefs,
                                                const bson_t              *opts,
                                                bson_t                    *reply,
                                                bson_error_t              *error);
.fi
.fi

Execute a command on the server, applying logic for commands that both read and write, and taking the MongoDB server version into account. To send a raw command to the server without any of this logic, use
.B mongoc_collection_command_simple
.

Use this function for commands that both read and write, such as "mapReduce" with an output collection.

Read concern is applied from
.B opts
or else from
.B collection
. Collation is applied from
.B opts
(
.B see example for 
). Read concern and collation both require MongoDB 3.2 or later, otherwise an error is returned. Read preferences are applied from
.B read_prefs
or else from
.B collection
. Write concern is applied from
.B opts
, or else from
.B collection
. The write concern is omitted for MongoDB before 3.2.

To target a specific server, include an integer "serverId" field in
.B opts
with an id obtained first by calling
.B mongoc_client_select_server
, then
.B mongoc_server_description_id
on its return value.

.B reply
is always initialized, and must be freed with
.B bson_destroy(3)
.

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
collection
A
.B mongoc_collection_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
command
A
.B bson_t
containing the command specification.
.LP
.TP
.B
read_prefs
An optional
.B mongoc_read_prefs_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
opts
A
.B bson_t
containing additional options.
.LP
.TP
.B
reply
A location for the resulting document.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
or
.B NULL
.
.LP

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated via the
.B error
parameter.

.SH "RETURNS"

.B true
if successful; otherwise
.B false
and
.B error
is set.

A write concern timeout or write concern error is considered a failure.

.SH "EXAMPLE"

See the example code for
.B mongoc_client_read_command_with_opts
.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.