.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CLIENT_GET_SERVER_DESCRIPTIONS" "3" "2016\(hy10\(hy20" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_client_get_server_descriptions() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
mongoc_server_description_t **
mongoc_client_get_server_descriptions (
   const mongoc_client_t        *client,
   size_t                       *n);
.fi
.fi

Fetches an array of
.B mongoc_server_description_t
structs for all known servers in the topology. Returns no servers until the client connects. Returns a single server if the client is directly connected, or all members of a replica set if the client's MongoDB URI includes a "replicaSet" option, or all known mongos servers if the MongoDB URI includes a list of them.

.nf
void
show_servers (const mongoc_client_t *client)
{
   bson_t *b = BCON_NEW ("ping", BCON_INT32 (1));
   bson_error_t error;
   bool r;
   mongoc_server_description_t **sds;
   size_t i, n;

   /* ensure client has connected */
   r = mongoc_client_command_simple (client, "db", b, NULL, NULL, &error);
   if (!r) {
      MONGOC_ERROR ("could not connect: %s\en", error.message);
      return;
   }

   sds = mongoc_client_get_server_descriptions (client, &n);

   for (i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
      printf ("%s\en", mongoc_server_description_host (sds[i])\(hy>host_and_port);
   }

   mongoc_server_descriptions_destroy_all (sds, n);
   bson_destroy (&b);
}
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
client
A
.B mongoc_client_t
.
.LP
.TP
.B
n
Receives the length of the descriptions array.
.LP

.SH "RETURNS"

A newly allocated array that must be freed with
.B mongoc_server_descriptions_destroy_all
.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.