.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "HANDLING_ERRORS" "3" "2016\(hy11\(hy17" "libbson"
.SH NAME
Handling_Errors \- Many libbson functions report errors by returning NULL or -1 and filling out a bson_error_t structure with an error domain, error code, and message.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Many libbson functions report errors by returning
.B NULL
or \(hy1 and filling out a
.B bson_error_t
structure with an error domain, error code, and message.

.IP \[bu] 2
.B error.domain
names the subsystem that generated the error.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B error.code
is a domain\(hyspecific error type.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B error.message
describes the error.

Some error codes overlap with others; always check both the domain and code to determine the type of error.

.TP
.B
.B None
.B BSON_JSON_ERROR_READ_CORRUPT_JS
.B bson_json_reader_t
tried to parse invalid MongoDB Extended JSON.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B BSON_JSON_ERROR_READ_INVALID_PARAM
Tried to parse a valid JSON document that is invalid as MongoDBExtended JSON.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B BSON_JSON_ERROR_READ_CB_FAILURE
An internal callback failure during JSON parsing.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B None
.B BSON_ERROR_READER_BADFD
.B bson_json_reader_new_from_file
could not open the file.
.LP


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.